Welcome back.
Let's quickly discuss an overview of what topic modeling is before we actually dive into the methods
of topic modeling.
So we're going to learn about latents there is a location and non-negative matrix factorization.
The first to understand general topic of topic modeling topic modeling allows us to efficiently analyze
large volumes of text by clustering documents together into topics a large amount of text data is actually
unlabelled meaning we won't be able to apply our previous supervised learning approaches because those
machine learning models would actually depend on historical labeled data and in the real world specifically
for text data.
You're not going to have a convenient label attached to a text dataset such as positive or negative
or spam versus him.
Instead you may have a variety of labels such as the different categories.
A newspaper article could be in and you may just have the text itself unlabelled.
So it's up to us to try to discover those labels through topic modeling.
So again if we have unlabeled data then we can attempt to discover these labels.
And in the case of text data this means really attempting to discover clusters of similar documents
grouped together hopefully by some sort of topic a very important idea to keep in mind here is that
it's actually very difficult to evaluate an unsupervised learning model's effectiveness because we didn't
actually know the correct topic or the right answer to begin with.
All we know is that the documents clustered together share some sort of similar topic ideas.
It's up to the user to identify what these topics actually represent.
So again these unsupervised learning algorithms.
There's not really a good way to evaluate how well they did because we never really had a right answer
to begin with.
We're going to begin by examining how latents there Asli allocation works and how it can attempt to
discover topics for a corpus of documents.
Let's get started.
Aasiya at the next lecture.